the left brain and the right brain work
together to determine the best
impressions to bid on and at what price
the left brain analyzes historical data
specific to a given T one advertiser to
understand how different combinations of
user media and creative variables lead
to the advertisers desired goal such as
a purchase for example an impression on
a news website at 9:00 a.m. on a Monday
in New York might have a different
probability of leading to a purchase
than an impression on a sports web site
at 8:00 p.m. on a Saturday in Denver the
left brain analyzes all the combinations
of media user and creative variables to
predict the probability that an
impression will achieve the desired goal
it then multiplies that probability by
the goal value the advertiser entered
into t1 to determine the optimal bid
price for example if an impression has a
1% chance per thousand impressions of
achieving an outcome that is worth $100
to the advertiser the suggested bid
would be $1 CPM since the probability
and value of the outcome both depend on
the advertiser every creative of every
campaign of every advertiser in t1 will
have a unique left-brain prediction of
what each impression is worth or buyer
value the left brain determines what
price to bid but that isn't the end of
the story the right brain predicts the
price at which each impression is
predicted to clear by modeling how
different combinations of variables
result in different clearing prices for
specific impressions for example
impressions in California on a large web
portal on a weekday evening will clear
at a different price than impressions in
the UK on a financial website on a
weekday morning unlike the left brain
the right brain is not specific to any
single advertiser the right brains
prediction or market value depends on
the competitive dynamics of the
marketplace as a whole the brain
calculates the ratio between the buyer
value and the market value to determine
the relative value this is what
determines the best impressions to bid
on as well as the right price to bid for
each ensuring that terminal 1
bidding is optimized to achieve
advertisers goals